Scorecard

I’ve been thinking a lot about how to “score” new ICOs.

Origionality: First thing I look at the originality of the idea. Does it solve an existing problem or like the iPad introduce a new way of doing things or interacting with the world? The technology I am looking for can do anything including entertainment, games, computation, science, payments or accountancy. But it needs to be revolutionary. My reaction to it needs to be “that’s obvious, so why did no-one think of it!”

Team: Who is the team? Developing new technology is hard. It’s not hard to understand the ideas behind digital signatures, but it’s another issue altogether implementing them securely. So the background and ability of the principles is important. Interestingly when it comes to this, age is not an issue.

Platform: A lot of these ICOs use blockchains. I am biased against those that use their own private blockchains. Generally I have noticed that they gloss over the issues of the consensus protocol. Basically, most are using PoS instead of PoW mining. Presently PoS is still unproven. The best I have seen is Ethereum, which has still not been implemented! Ethereum has been designed so that the issuance of tokens is easy, so I am predisposed to ICOs that use the Ethereum platform. This is because, they get the benefit of a existing Blockchain, that is battle hardened. The DAO of course was a complete debacle: I am sceptical of systems that claim to be completely dependent on smart contracts. It’s easy to say “gee I would like a space going submarine, wouldn’t that be nice”. “I see tremendous potential for such a vehicle” doesn’t mean anyone can make it. A lot of these ICOs are of that form: A great idea and technology that I can see would be game changing. The problem is that there is nothing to show they can actually get it off the ground.

Valuation: How much are they raising? It needs to be enough to make the project viable, but not so much that it becomes a target like the DAO. The valuation also needs to be reasonable: these are extremely high risk “investments”. The upside needs to enormous,so that basically, you are buying an option. Remember these are not equity instruments, and so your rights are not clear. You are buying at a massive discount, in the expectation that the demand for the tokens will be so high that you will make multiples of your investment. This makes sense, given that in most cases you will lose all your investment. At the moment there is no data, will it be 1 in 10, 1 in 100 or 1 in 1000?

Legal: Is the token legal or will it fall foul of securities laws? The latest thinking seems to be that if the token is needed to access the platform or service it will be fine, but if it’s a form of finance that is its being raised to fund the developement or equipment then it’s a security.

Fraud: Going to be a lot of scams, outright fraud, just a boiler plate and photoshopped documents and then run off with the cash/BTC/ETH/XMR.

Liquidity: Trading, will the token be traded on exchanges? One of the most profitable trading strategies has always been to buy an IPO and dump at the open. Of course there will always be some that are worth holding for the long term. And of course, you will have sold those, “woulda, coulda, shoulda,..but I didn't”.

So that’s six points. There is a lot of subjectivity so I am not going to use a scoring mechanism, because I am not sure how to weight each point. When it comes to these ICOs we are betting on an extremely long shot, so the odds need to be massively in our favour. Be careful out there! Presently I am looking at VDice and Golem. And of course, my favorite Zcash.

